#summary Wiki page for our project
#labels Featured

== Project purpose ==
Prospective idea: A semantic file system that can be stacked on top of existing file systems without changing the original structure or altering the interface for the existing applications.

=== Bibliography ===

1. M. A. Sheldon, D. K. Gifford, P. Jouvelot and et. al. Semantic file systems.

2. D. Giampaolo. Practical file system design with the Be file system.

3. S. Bloehdorn. Tagfs - tag semantics for hierarchical file systems.

4. Y. Padioleau, O. Ridoux. A logic file system.

6. David Ingram. Insight: A semantic file system.

7. M. Mahalingam, C. Tang, Z. Xu. Towards a semantic, deep archival file system.

8. A. Ames, N. Bobb, S. A. Brandt and et. al. Richer file system metadata using links and attributes.

9. A. Kashyap. File system extensibility and reliability using an in-kernel database.

10. J. Sipek, Y. Pericleous, and E. Zadok. Kernel support for stackable file systems.

11.  E. Zadok and J. Nieh. FiST: a language for stackable file systems.

12. 10. E. Zadok, I. Badulescu and A. Shender. Extending file systems using stackable templates.

13. D. Quigley, J. Sipek, C. P. Wright and et. al. Unionfs: user- and community-oriented development of a unification file system.

14. S. Patil, A. Kashyap, G. Sivathanu, and et. al. I^3FS: An in-kernel integrity checker and intrusion detection file system.

15. Spotlight - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spotlight_(software)

16. WinFS - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Winfs

(Somehow unrelated):
 A. Muthitacharoen, R. Morris, T. M. Gil, and B. Chen. Ivy: A Read/Write Peer-to-Peer File System.